mind your decisions I'm presh to Walker
cards numbered one through six are
placed facedown on a table the cards are
then shuffled you and I each select a
card at random you take a look and see
your card is a two I take a look and see
the number on my card I then ask would
you like to trade cards the higher card
wins the game how should you answer this
game is from a TED ed talk by the chess
grandmaster Maurice Ashley I think Joe
for suggesting this problem pause the
video if you'd like to give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
most people think about the game as
follows suppose your card is a 2 there
are 4 cards that are higher than 2 and
just one card that's lower than 2 it
seems like there's a 4 out of 5 or 80%
chance that the other card is higher and
that it would be a good idea to trade
the 2 but in this game it's not a random
choice I first saw my card and then
asked if you'd like to trade how does
that change the game we need to analyze
using game theory the science of
strategy first a definition a strategy
is strictly dominated if another
strategy has a higher payoff regardless
of what others do you should never play
a strictly dominated strategy suppose
that my card is a 6
would I ever trade a 6 no since 6 is the
highest card it always wins and I would
always keep this card trading 6 is a
strictly dominated strategy so we want
to eliminate the option of trading a 6
but where do we go from there we can
actually repeat this process it's known
as the iterated elimination of strictly
dominated strategies or ie SDS here's
the algorithm we first look for
dominated strategies in the game we
asked are there any if there are we
eliminate those dominated strategies we
then consider the reduced game and again
look for dominated strategies we then
ask are there any in the reduced game if
so we eliminate them and then we repeat
the process we continue doing this until
we cannot find any more dominated
strategies at this point the answer is
no then any remaining strategy is
reasonable let's apply a est s to this
game we start out with the card of a 6
we know that trading 6 is a strictly
dominated strategy so we eliminate that
option in the reduced game 5 is the
highest card what do we ever want to
trade a 5
we would only want to trade a five if we
knew the other person was offering a six
but we know that neither player is going
to be offering a six therefore trading
five is a strictly dominated strategy in
this reduced game so we want to
eliminate this option from here we can
continue this process in the reduced
game trading for is a strictly dominated
strategy so we eliminate that we then
eliminate trading three in this reduced
game and then we can eliminate trading -
we're left with just one card which is a
one obviously trading one is a good idea
because every other card is a higher
number the conclusion is that a rational
person that wants to trade cards must be
looking at a card of a 1 so let's go
back to the situation your card was a 2
I had taken a look at my card and I
asked would you like to trade cards
using the perfect logical reasoning of
iest s you can conclude my card must be
a 1 therefore you must answer no because
you don't want to trade your two for a 1
you want to win the game with the two
there's a lesson in this game that you
should always consider the information
and intention of others if an offer
sounds too good to be true it probably
is
things are making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]